And if you looked at a particular place
over Secret Mountain, you would see this
big orb being escorted by helicopters
rising from behind Secret Mountain. And
we watched at 1:30 in the morning. And
sure enough,
up comes this beautiful golden orb,
gigantic. It pulses. It's plasmatic.
And so where my mind might go with that
is that this is some sort of global
control system. Got an object about a
mile behind us and it's following us.
Let's hope they're friendly.
One of the first things that one of my
sources in that Georgetown pub back in
probably 2018 told me was, "It's all
about consciousness."
You probably met more people in and
around these programs [music] than
anybody else alive.
You are saying to the human race, "We
are not alone.
We're definitely not alone."
[music] Anyway, he chuckled and I
remember he just let something like,
"Yeah, the Americans wanted that one
shut down pretty quickly." Whoa. It's a
multi-minute [music] long video of this
thing flying in the air and there are
symbols around the top. I showed photos
of the symbols to Mario Woods and
[music] to Randy Anderson and both of
them freaked out. We went to his home
and [music]
saw this sphere apparently move under
its own power. People have been murdered
cuz I'm told that the briefing that the
FBI gave in Congress really blew people
away. I have no doubt they think they're
going to get away with it.
Uh-huh.
And you know what? Why?
They probably will.
I'm here with Ross Coloulthart who um I
have just so much gratitude to express.
First of all, uh we've been waiting to
do this for a very long time. I'm
grateful you're in the US.
I've been avoiding you.
I know you haven't. Um but I'm also I
just want to express my gratitude
because we were talking before when the
you know cameras weren't rolling. I feel
like I am aerodynamically drafting
behind you. I feel like you uh have done
so much leg work in getting all these
amazing scoops and uh you know often
I'll do you know a follow-up interview
where you know I have a lot of fun but
it's really I just have so much I I owe
you a debt and I think humanity owes you
a debt as well and so I'm grateful for
you uh sitting down.
It's a mutual admiration society Jesse
because I often say to my family how the
hell does he do it? [laughter]
You you seem like a jack rabbit
everywhere I see. I mean, have you just
come back from Colombia or something?
You're doing a Burgus fear story.
I was in Yeah, I Well, I was in This is
what's crazy and I know you've
experienced, I'm sure, all sorts of
stories where like it starts a certain
way and then you have another story come
up. So, I was investigating the these
Peruvian mummies, these tridactyl, you
know, three toaded and fingered mummies
from Peru. And then on the way back up
to the US, I stop in Mexico City to meet
with Haime Mousan, who's a big proponent
of this. and two days before he happened
to get this boggga sphere
sent to him or whatever and so I
happened to be there. Um
I've got to know what's your preliminary
assessment. Is it real?
It's so hard to say.
Did you see what did you see what my
friend Rooney Verete posted on Twitter?
Repeat it for the audience.
A fuel tank. So, so there's a particular
shape of fuel tank that is exactly 9 L
and it's got similar holes
to the one that Yummy is relying on. And
it does have the same seam running along
the side. It it looks like a direct
visual match with a few changes as if
somebody's cosmetically altered it.
It's definitely remarkable just the fact
pattern. So, as you know very well,
whenever you take a stance, a hard
stance in this world, you get a ton of
flack. So, I'll just give you my fact
pattern of what I've experienced and
then people can sort of decide for
themselves. So, Haime Man was given this
thing. It was taken in Colombia. That's
why it's called the Bugga Sphere. Um, it
was given by a guy. So, this video was
taken by this guy who is um I guess he
like does like uh mining and and metal
detection underground and it's a it's a
very long it's a multi-minute long video
of this thing flying in the air. You've
seen the video
and then he picks it up in the forest
and there is a little gap in the video.
So, that does beget a question of like,
you know, provenence and why is there a
gap in the video? And then he has it for
a while in his possession. and he ends
up giving it to Haime Man. And there are
symbols around the top. Apparently, it's
an aluminum alloy that's, you know,
three times the hardness of what we
generally use in conventional aerospace.
And then maybe the most interesting fact
I can give you uh that is new to the
audience as well is I showed photos of
the symbols to Mario Woods and to Randy
Anderson. Mario Woods, 1977 Ellsworth
Air Force Base Experiencer. And then
Randy Anderson is this guy who was taken
underground, you know, at um crane,
naval surface warfare crane and was
possibly shown some off world
technology. And both of them freaked out
because it was like that these were the
symbols that they had both seen. Mario
inside the craft.
I want to give you something cuz I'm not
sure and again again I am not avowing
that this is my opinion.
Neither of us are endorsing the Boogas.
We are just these are facts that we're
neither endorsing nor debunking.
That's right. Um, but I did what I'm
increasingly doing these days. I took a
photograph of the sphere and I uploaded
it to AI
and I asked AI, in this case I think it
was Groke,
and I said, "Can you please decipher
these symbols for me?"
And it came back very quickly and said
the circuit
and that I have to admit made me think
it was a hoax.
Now, I'm not saying it's a hoax, okay?
But what I am saying is that came back
when I put it through AI. But AI is
often wrong.
But uh what I love about AI is that its
ability to draw on symbology and
numerology and all of these ideas and it
came back with this one phrase the
circuit.
Well, if you look at the top, it looks
like a little semiconductor or a chip.
Yeah.
And then you have, you know, this begets
all these ontological questions of like
you have, I think his name is Patrick
Jackson.
Yes.
Who has you've done an amazing story.
Everybody go watch Ross' story with this
guy.
And I I have seen one of these spheres
in a different domain in the home of a
beautiful man in Texas who is a good
soul. And I can tell you it may be the
case that his sphere is now in the
possession of Brandon Fugal and the
Skinwalker Ranch show is going to be
paying to have that sphere properly
investigated. There's a scoop for you.
I was going to run it on my show.
Yeah. So Jim Maron is a former um rock
promoter who worked with Willie Nelson
and uh he has a house in Texas and uh we
went to his home and saw this sphere.
I have to be careful. Apparently move
under its own power. Wow. And I mean, we
were sitting with Jim for hours talking
and he was in a home where the floor had
just been fixed, so it's perfectly
level. And we verified that with a level
and the ball is sitting stationary on
the floor and then all of a sudden it
starts moving and there's a bar which
has a pole coming down onto the floor.
It goes up to the bar and from memory it
might have even circled the pole and
then come back again part of the way
and there was no movement. We were all
just sitting in a chair talking and then
Jim chroles and goes
and it moves. Yeah.
Was there something that came up in the
conversation? Was it aligned with
anything synchronistic?
No. And so when I ran that story
on um Channel 7 Australia,
Mhm.
they, as usual, as TV networks are want
to do, beat the living daylights out of
it, which is a journalistic term for
vlogging the story until it bleeds.
And um it um
you know, there were all the promos were
fancy and it made it look like we were
saying for sure that it was an anomalous
object. We truly don't know for sure.
And the great frustration for me for the
past few years since I did that story in
2021 is every time I went to Jim and
asked him could we take it to go and get
it tested, there was a lot of resistance
and it made me suspicious. But then he
agreed to go and let it get tested. But
the problem was when I was trying to
find an X-ray place that does industrial
X-rays, the first thing they want to
know is, well, what's inside it? And I'm
going, well, that's why we want to X-ray
it.
And um and I I was expressing this
dilemma only very recently on a show
somewhere and this gentleman rang me
from Chicago
and said that he would X-ray in his
industrial X-ray machine and he had some
other type of machine. um can't remember
what it was. Might have been a CT, I'm
not sure. Yeah.
And he would run it through that as
well. And it was for free. And I went to
Jim and I said to Jim, "Jim, I finally
found a place that can test the ball for
you, the sphere for you." Cuz one of the
things I get most a lot of the inquiries
about from our audience is, "What
happened to the sphere?" You know, why
haven't you told us the story about the
sphere? And I was finally about to
announce that we've got somebody who
will allow us to do the testing on the
sphere cuz Jim won't let us cut into it
for obvious reasons.
And um he told me, "I'm sorry, Ross.
Brandon Fugles agreed to fly it in his
private jet to Utah where he's going to
have it tested in the lab." And look,
frankly, I'm really happy if that's
going to be the case for Patrick, who I
know
and um and for Jim, who's a beautiful
guy. uh to finally get an answer and
Brandon I've spoken to Brandon about it
and I've encouraged him to to do it and
so hopefully it's all going to happen.
Um fingers crossed.
Yeah, let's hope that's amaz and I think
Patrick because you were talking about
the chip and so where my mind might go
with that again I don't know if it's
real is uh that this is some sort of
like global control system or something.
Well, Patrick's theory is that these
spheres are part of a global defense
system by some alien civilization to
keep the bad guys out of Earth,
right?
And I quite like Patrick. He's a very
clever man.
He has an eclectic intelligence and he's
fun.
Uh I honestly don't know how he could
know that,
right? Yeah. So, I mean, a lot of it is
speculation and he's got type one
spheres and type two spheres and
often there'll be a photograph of a
plane
and you do you see these spheres around
planes in UAP events.
So, there's often
a big,
let's call it object rather than a
craft. there's a big object that's
clearly anomalous sometimes beside an
aircraft and then if you look really
closely you'll see these dots that are
these metallic spheres and when I did
that story I did that in 2021 for
Australian TV it just went nuts
it's been seen that particular story if
you add the two iterations of the story
because we we had to take one down
because of copyright issues with music
um it's been seen over 43 3 million
times.
And so I was getting phone calls,
messages, emails from people all over
the world,
including I remember a beautiful guy in
Africa
who who told me that they were seeing
these spheres. And what I I can report
is whatever they are,
I do think I can say they're real.
They're a real phenomenon. M
whatever they are, they're metal spheres
with no visible means of propulsion.
Dozens of people have told me that
they've seen them flying or moving under
their own locomotive power that there's
no visible way in which they're moving
and I don't honestly know what to
conclude about them because
I mean I expressed the enigma by telling
the story but like so much of this whole
story Jesse
I don't know about you but I often feel
like I've got my eyes closed and I'm
kind of feeling in the dark and trying
to get an idea
as soon as
I realize there's a whole other room
over here.
And
it it's it it's it's mindbogglingly
complex, whatever it is.
This episode is brought to you by my
favorite new product, Masa Chips. Here's
a quick history lesson. Before the
1990s, all chips and fries were cooked
in beef tallow. Then the big food
companies swapped this ingredient out
for cheap, highly processed seed oils.
Today, seed oils make up 20% of the
average American's calories, and they're
linked to all sorts of bad things like
chronic inflammation and metabolic
issues. Masa decided to rewind the
clock. They make tortilla chips with
just three simple ingredients: organic
corn, sea salt, and 100% grass-fed beef
tallow. No seed oils, no weird
additives, and honestly, they taste way
better, too. Masa chips are crunchier,
more flavorful, and they don't
disintegrate in guac like the usual
ones. But the real difference is how you
feel. Light, satisfied, no crash, no
bloat, and no weird craving spiral an
hour later. I've been snacking on them
non-stop while working on these shows,
and they actually keep me sharp. Masa
chips are beloved by tens of thousands
of customers and have been endorsed by
industry-leading health and nutrition
experts like Ben Greenfield and Gary
Brea. So, ready to give Masa a try? Go
to masachips.com/jesse
michaels. Michaelels with no a and use
code jesse michaels for 25% off your
first order. That's masach.com/jesse
Michaels and use code Jesse Michaels for
25% off your first order. You're really
helping the channel out when you use
that code. And this is a product I love
and consume just about every day.
Part of what I want to do in this
interview is so many people are used to
seeing you in the context of breaking
these bombshell stories.
I want to get to know the man behind
that because you you you are often the
interviewer. And so how did you were you
know exposing corruption and stuff with
the surveillance state in Australia,
right? How did you get into UFOs to
begin with? [gasps]
Like every kid, I was obsessed with
Doctor Who. And I I I I loved a show
called EUO that was on TV. It was a
British series um about malevolent
aliens invading Earth. And there was
this secret organization called Shadow
that was defending Earth. But I'll be
honest, I always saw that as fiction and
I accepted it was fiction. I never
believed it was true. And even when in
New Zealand where I was living as a kid,
I um
there was a really big UFO incident in
1978 when I was 16 years old in a place
called Kikura on the east coast of the
South Island of New Zealand. And there
was a cargo aircraft flying up that
coastline in 1978 in the middle of the
night. And the pilot and the co-pilot
had these objects clearly in their view
elliptical metallic discshaped objects
come right up to the cockpit window
glowing but clearly metallic and then go
away again. And um what was interesting
was that it was another kind of nimmit
story because you had sensor systems. I
found the guy in Wellington across the
Cook Straight who was the radar operator
on the night who'd seen these things on
radar and as the two guys who were the
journalists on the aircraft were
describing the objects say going to the
west the radar operator John Cordi was
seeing them go to the west
have a strong target uh at 12:00 here at
20 miles
roger we have that one also and uh quite
a good uh visual display at the moment
showing light.
So you had this
contemporaneous real time confirmation
of solid objects moving or at least
objects that registered on radar moving
in the directions that these witnesses
were saying that they were seeing these
objects moving. And they were seeing
objects that were plasmatically glowing,
but at the same time clearly solid,
structured, in their words, craft. We
just heard from Wellington radar that
we've uh got an object about a mile
behind us and it's following us. Let's
hope they're friendly.
I alo there's a
strong target right in formation with
you now. Uh could either be left or
right, but your your target has doubled
in size.
And for each of those people, it was a
transformative moment. But what was
really interesting for me as a
journalist was
I bought as a teenage boy the official
government explanation.
And I was doing my exams. I was really
focused on my studies. There'd been the
Valentic story of a young boy called
Frederick Valentic who had disappeared
in his Cessna aircraft flying over Bass
Strait in Australia just a few months
before. And as somebody who was really
already very interested in the media, I
kind of bought into the idea that this
is all a big media beat up because
there's a big problem in the December
January period. It's the Christmas
holiday period. The news is pretty
boring. And so this was obviously a
story that the media had leapt onto and
I just thought, yeah, this is just a big
media beat up.
What was interesting also was that the
government had come out with an official
explanation very very quickly which said
that these were squidboat lights and in
New Zealand there are these big Japanese
fishing fleets that go off the coast
with these gigantic lights and you often
saw them as a kid and they were glowing
on the horizon and they looked spooky.
And so the theory that was pushed by the
a the New Zealand Air Force was that
these were squidboats lights and the
captain the co-pilot of one plane and
the captain and the co-pilot of another
plane. Even though they were flying at
14,000 ft, they were mistaken and those
objects were below them and it was some
kind of refraction in the air. Blah blah
blah blah blah. It all gave a a
reasonable tinge of explanation that
made everybody in New Zealand think,
"Ah, that was just a [__] story
during the Christmas season. It's all
over.
For me though it was interesting because
much much later when I became a
journalist. Uh I was working for the New
Zealand Herald newspaper and I met Sir
Robert Mulun who was the former New
Zealand prime minister and he used to do
these convivial little chats at
Christmas time where a a young reporter
me had to drive up and interview him and
talk to the former prime minister about
whatever he wanted to talk about. And I
decided I don't know why I knew he'd
been the prime minister at the time. I
decided to ask him, "What about that
Kikura UFO thing that happened when I
was 16?" And by that time, I think I was
about 19 or 20, I can't remember.
Anyway, he chuckled and I remember he
just let something like,
"Yeah, the Americans wanted that one
shut down pretty quickly."
Whoa. Wow.
And that cuz I love espionage stories
and I love as a young New Zealander I
was always focused
on books about espionage. And as you
referred to earlier,
one of the biggest stories I did in my
time in Australia was I revealed the
existence exclusively of the Echelon
communications surveillance system which
is what the five eyes operate to
intercept communications. And for the
first time ever, um, I got from an
intelligence service in Australia an
official admission that there was a
system called Echelon and it was
involved in communications, surveillance
and spying. And so I was switched on to
that issue all my life. I've always been
really interested in spies and
espionage. And so it twigged my interest
that Sir Robert Maldun was describing
this admission that there'd been some
kind of American intervention, but he
wouldn't go any further. And then much
much later when I was writing my book, I
discovered that there'd been this
release of the New Zealand archives in
about 2011
and it essentially revealed the detail
of what went on inside the Air Force in
New Zealand to try and fix this problem
as fast as possible. And it was quite
clear these Air Force officers had been
told, "Find a [__] solution as fast
as possible. We want this off the front
page." And it was quite clear enormous
amounts of pressure was being put on the
chief of air staff, the head of the air
force by the prime minister's office to
make this one go away. And hence the
squidboat explanation. And then when I
was writing my book, I met Quentyn
Fogerty who'd been one of the reporters
on the plane who by complete chance his
son Ben was one of the chief cameramen
at 60 Minutes where I was working as a
reporter. And so Ben said to me, "My dad
was the guy who was on that plane that
night." And so I got to meet his father.
Another weird serendipity.
And another one of the reporters was a
political correspondent called Dennis
Grant of great renown later on in um
Australia. And Dennis confirmed all the
story. And um he introduced me to Bruce
McCabe who was the um atmospheric
physicist who sadly recently died. And
all of a sudden, I realized that the
story that I'd bought as a young teenage
kid that basically told me this was
[__]
was actually completely untrue.
And there'd been a really elaborate
cover up
and that fascinated me. And it was one
of the cuz I actually started out
writing my book in about 2018 when I
left 60 Minutes. I thought I wanted to
do a book debunking UFOs. I was arrogant
and I had this assumption that all UFOs
were nonsense and it was only a matter
of time. I'd read Nick Cook's um hunt
for zero point and
you know he'd implied very strongly that
there was some sort of secret US
aerospace program. We obviously have
heard all the rumors about the Aurora or
the or the TR3B. And I just assumed it
was some kind of black world American
technology and that a bit of dutiful
digging would no doubt reveal this and
somehow for some inescapable reason I
would discover it and make my name by
revealing that the whole UFO story was
complete nonsense. But the more I got
into the story because of that Kura
story, everywhere I went, everybody was
telling me this is real. And so I had
sources from the original Echelon
investigation I'd done and from people
I'd met in Afghanistan and Iraq when I
covered the war who were in senior
levels in intelligence and um defense.
and they facilitated introductions for
me to people who privately when we sat
over a table in a bar said, "Ross, this
is real."
Yeah. And that only really happened for
me
more recently, you know, while I was
writing my book.
And probably the biggest breakthrough
moment for me where I went, "Holy heck,
this is real." is when the the um the
technique I'd used
to try and investigate this was because
of my knowledge of echelon and how easy
it is to intercept digital
communications.
I decided I wouldn't approach anybody
that I thought might know something
about this other than by using analog
communication techniques. I wouldn't
even use phones because of course
there's a metadata and we knew about
that because of the um Snowden
revelations that there was this metadata
trail
that essentially reveals that you can be
tracked and and they might not know the
contents of the phone conversation but
they can certainly track a lot about
your habits and your movements and who
you're talking to by looking at the
metadata. And so I wrote letters.
Wow. So I wrote I think about 160 170
letters at last K and a lot of it
involved doing things like
uh I'm a lawyer by training
and so as a young trainy lawyer I'd
learned that a lot of stinky stuff
happens in the discovery process and
legal proceedings with documents that
are maybe procured but not necessarily
tended in a court case and um they're
often tangential to what you're trying
to discover to prove the case that
you're mounting, but there's some really
juicy stuff in there. And so I don't
want to go into too much detail, but
there was some very helpful lawyers.
And so I built up a name base of people
that I thought might be interesting
who'd been involved in litigation at
Area 51.
And in a layering and iterative process
of doing what I do, which is basic
investigative journalism where you you
build up a chronology and you think who
might know something about advanced
aerospace or who might have been working
in a security role or a support role at
that time in this area that might know
something. You build up a name base. And
so I wrote letters to people. And one of
the glorious things about America is how
ridiculously open every database is. And
I could procure the home addresses of
everybody that I wanted to write to,
including some of the most important
scientists in America.
Wow.
And what shocked me was one of the
letters I wrote was to a guy called Natt
Kobitz.
Mh. and um he was the former head of
science technology development for the
US Navy
and I'd written to him as an active
brazen cheek to be perfectly honest. I
honestly did not expect that somebody
like him
would respond.
What did Kobit say?
He rang me and I didn't talk UFOs with
him for 3 months.
Mhm.
And I realized sadly one of the reasons
he wanted to talk to me was because he
was a lonely elderly man who, God bless
him, was dying slowly of cancer.
And he was in his daughter's home and
she was nursing him and he was bored. M
and I was interested in talking to him
and he was talking to me about
developing early drone technology and
and how one of their drones had crashed
in George Bush the president's ranch
because the Secret Service had um
frequency blockers.
Mhm. M and you know they'd spent
millions of dollars on building this
drone and the first time they flew it
because they flew into the Secret
Service envelope it crashed and he went
there went a few million bucks, you
know, and [laughter] and uh and he had
this wonderful Jewish Brooklyn sense of
humor and I became very friendly with
him and I loved I used to really enjoy
talking to him. There were things like
he'd been involved in developing things
on the the lunar lander and I knew
somebody who'd worked on the lunar
lander and they told me something about
the lunar lander and because Nate knew
about that we bounced off that and it
just got more and more interesting and
then
one day I rang him and he was getting
really ill
and I could hear a a kind of a um a
change in his voice and I felt really
sad because it was obvious he was ill
He went, "Why don't you ask me the
question?"
No way.
He was the guy who suggested I ask it.
Oh, wow. He kind of knew you were
He knew. He knew why I was there. Yeah.
I'd made no secret that I was writing a
book about UFOs.
Uh-huh. You know how we're always diving
into the edge of science and
consciousness on this show. Lately, I've
been thinking a lot about aging, not
just in terms of years, but in how it
actually feels in the body. slower
recovery, lower energy, that middle-aged
fog that sneaks up on you. I feel like I
can barely go out and drink alcohol
anymore. That's why I started using
something called qualiaenolytic.
And it's been a major shift for me. Let
me explain. As we age, our bodies
accumulate what scientists call
scinsesscent cells, also known as zombie
cells. These are worn out cells that
stop dividing but don't die. They hang
around in your body, draining your
energy, clogging up your recovery, and
generally making you feel older than you
are. Qualioenolytic is a firstofits-kind
supplement formulated with nine
plant-based compounds designed to help
your body naturally eliminate these
zombie cells. It's not something you
take every day, just 2 days a month, but
it supports your body in aging better at
the cellular level. Since I've started
taking it, I've felt sharper, lighter,
and like my body's resilience has come
back online. It's vegan, non-GMO, and
grounded in serious research. Experience
the science of feeling younger. Go to
qualia.com/jesse
for up to 50% off your purchase and use
code jessie. Again, that's Jes.
That's qu u a l i a l i f e.com/jessej
ss e for an extra 15% off your purchase.
Thanks so much to Qualia for sponsoring
this episode.
Why don't you ask me the question? And I
was nervous. I was actually slightly
nervous. [laughter]
And I've never released it, but I've
actually got a recording of this.
Oh my god.
And he had authorized me to record it,
of course. Um, and I went, "I've been
agonizing about how to ask you this
question."
And he went, "Third time, why don't you
just ask me the question?" And so I
went, "Have you ever been read in to any
kind of program involving
unidentified
aerial phenomena, alien technology?" And
before I finished answering the
question, he went, "Yes."
Wow.
And he'd obviously made him the decision
to answer the question.
And I actually didn't hear him the first
time he said it.
Uhhuh.
I was expecting him to go, "No, I don't
know." Cuz everybody was saying, "No, I
don't know anything about what you're
talking about." And you know, well,
actually, no, that wasn't true. I'd
already had people confirm the retrieval
program,
but
there was a kind of a beat. One, two,
and I went, "What?" [laughter]
And and I I I out of respect to Nate and
his family, I'm not going to go into a
lot of detail of the remaining parts of
the conversation because what he then
did for me
was incredible. He facilitated
introductions
to people and that was my big
breakthrough.
Wow.
And um
will that conversation ever come out?
I I think I'd want his family's okay
about it.
Sure.
You know, cuz it's an emotional thing, I
think, for a family to hear a father's
voice after he's been passed for so
long.
Yeah. But um he was a beautiful guy and
and it was an act of courage on his part
and and I remember one of the
conversations I had with him was do you
think there's any good reason cuz this
is the thing I wrestle with as I know
you do as well.
What's the dirty secret? Why why can't
we know this? You know if the US has
recovered technology,
why can't we know? And
he hadn't been told that. and and he had
that rigid doctrinire thing about how he
wasn't read into that part of it
and um that was a compartmentalized
issue he wasn't entitled to know about.
What he told me was that he'd been told
that the United States had recovered
multiple craft.
Wow.
Multiple craft. And he implied very
strongly that Roswell and another case
I'm interested in Aztec and Kingman were
all real incidents.
And that really rocked my worldview. And
um
but what what happened was he also told
me that he cuz oh there was another time
I asked him I said ah
have you have actually seen evidence of
alien technology and he went no and kind
of I was kind of disappointed cuz he
implied that he had.
Yeah. And then he gave me this cheeky
look
and cuz we were talking on Zoom and um
and I said,
"Have you ever been given
anomalous technology
that
defied prosaic explanation?"
Uhhuh.
And he went like he had the first time.
Yes.
Wow. And then he told me this amazing
story about how he was an expert in a
particular type of welding called
electron beam welding.
Okay.
And apparently they his company had done
the the nose wheel for the C47, one of
the big cargo planes used by the US
military and they need really tough
welds
and this is one of the strongest welds
you can do of metals. And he was like
the world expert with his company in
that type of welding. And it's an
indistinguishable bead unlike I don't
know if you've ever welded but it's it
welds leave a big bead.
This type of welding didn't. And so he
was contacted on his own admission by
Wright Patterson Air Force Base.
[laughter]
And I think it was even whatever the
technology division is known as now. I
think it might be the
foreign technology exploitation
something or other.
Yeah.
And he um he was flown to right Pat.
Yeah. And he did go underground. I
remember I giggled and I said, "Did you
go underground?" He went, "Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah." It was obviously a long way
down.
And he was taken into a room under heavy
guard.
Mhm.
And shown what he described to me as the
piece of a bulkhead.
And he said it looked like it should
have been incredibly heavy, but it was
almost light, almost lightweight, you
know, like a feather.
Yeah. And he said what blew him away was
and he I I don't know enough about metal
metallergy to know this, but
he said there were two types of metal
and he wouldn't tell me what types of
metal they were
that had been bonded. And he asked to
look at it, I think, under an electron
scanning microscope.
Mhm.
And the scientist in him couldn't resist
giving that sense of awe about what he
saw that he said it was bonded at the
atomic level.
Whoa.
Whoever had built this
had layered it atom by atom and he said
I I know for a fact that's not a
technology certainly that I'm aware of
and I would have thought that I would
have known.
Yeah. I think like semiconductors you
can do little amounts of atomic layer
deposition but you can't fabricate at
scale materials that are atomically you
know where you're deliberately placing
atoms you just can't do that's amazing
so I think for me the the big aha moment
where I stopped being the skeptic and
went holy [__] this is real I can't
believe this
and I remember I actually spent days
just going for walks cuz I was writing
my book and it had it had actually
altered I had a confirmational bias.
Yeah.
I was writing a book to debunk all this
nonsense and and this guy is telling me
it's true.
Is this in plain sight by the way that
you were writing at the time?
Yeah. And the great thing about it was
um I was doing a lot of traveling for 60
minutes and channel 7 to big networks in
Australia and I was often in America and
as part of cost cutting they'd often
leave you in a hotel for a few days
while you shared the crew with another
reporter
and so you'd have down time when really
all you wanted to do was be with your
family
and you're sitting in a hotel in
Washington or New York and it sounds
like fun I know and once you've tried on
the fluffy dressing gun and used the
bath salts once. You just a bit bored.
Yeah.
And so I would um I'd research things.
Mhm.
And I was going to the national archives
and reading a lot of the old archives on
UFOs.
And then that organized for me to start
meeting people. And that was like
UAP 101.
And there was just this conga line of
people coming through an apartment I
rented that were
brave, amazing people.
It's amaz Well, it's amazing how deeply
embedded you became because if I
remember correctly, Grush had come out
and you guys had had some mutual
contacts before he came out.
Yeah, that's true.
And with Jake Barber, I believe you knew
him for like a couple of years before he
came out. Can't say how long I knew
Overman, but basically
it's just to protect them. But
basically, yeah,
I learned about David Grush from people
in the program.
I just think that's important for the
audience to hear because, you know, they
think it's some like choreographed thing
or whatever.
You [laughter] know, people have always
got this idea that all that happens is
these people come to you and you
interview them. It's a really lazy job.
Yeah.
And they have no idea. Honestly, I I
used to have a full head of hair and and
and the [laughter]
the the the job of
it's a bit like you. I really admire the
way you do your stuff cuz you actually
know a lot of science and a lot of
physics and you [laughter] but you you
do and and I I love the way you
demonstrate that knowledge in the shows
that you do.
Thank you. Whereas I honestly am not a
scientist. But what I do is I'm really
good and I learned this at law school
at absorbing huge amounts of
information, complex information and
analyzing it and understanding it and
and making sure I understand it because
at law school we had the Socratic method
where you were tested orally about your
understanding of something
and you were put on the spot by the
lecturer and questioned in front of 300
other students. And if you didn't know
your stuff, you were humiliated and
vilified. And I was never going to let
that happen. And I was humiliated and
vilified on constant occasions.
And um
so you're like Pavlovian conditioned
terror terror training. Yeah,
that's right.
And um and so I learned subjects so that
I could hold conversations with people
and I'd read Scientific American
articles and try and understand them and
I for the life of me couldn't. and I I'd
get friendly physicists or um
neuroscientists to explain things to me.
And it's by demonstrating a knowledge or
an understanding or just enough to be
able to have a conversation with
somebody
that increases the flow.
And so sometimes I'd come out of a
conversation and I'd go, I think I've
got what they're talking about. And
there's a lot of ideas that people were
discussing with me that frankly now that
I'm into consciousness and psionics and
stuff like that, I'm now only now
beginning to understand. And it's um
it's seven years since I had those
conversations.
It's it's wild how much your kind of
aperture opens up getting I mean I'm
curious as to like how you feel now
because you've broken all these stories.
You can't really argue with the
substance of a lot of the stories. You
can't argue with the people's
backgrounds, you know, their
credentials. Like, you can't really do
that.
And so, I imagine you feel like you're
on this like remote island and then like
you have, you know, I feel this at
least, you have like mainstream media or
news and they just it's like they can't
even comprehend like where you are.
You know, it's funny. I'm so glad you've
led me into this path because I'm going
to give you my rant. I I think there
will come a time in the not too distant
future where there will be a bloody
reckoning with the failure of the
mainstream media in the main
Mhm.
to deal with the greatest disinformation
operation in human history.
Yes. Yeah.
It has been the most effective SCOP ever
run. [laughter]
Yeah. But you you also realize when
talking to a lot of these people the
SCOP maybe it's at the top like okay
I'll tell give you a crazy story.
Sure.
A friend of mine was planning an op-ed
with a former cabinet member in the US.
The cabinet member wanted to know where
they were they were expressing
frustration about their lack of access
to
UFO stuff.
Mhm. I decided to help him out because
he was having trouble with the Wall
Street Journal getting this published,
which is just primmaaccia. Crazy if you
take that claim at face value.
And even just the fact that the cabinet
member is claiming it.
Well, look, I mean, what made the New
York Times publish it in 2017, the mere
fact that the Pentagon was looking at
UFOs was a story.
It's it's there you go, which is that is
a story, right? And so, um, and then you
get into all these questions of like,
why did the New York Times reject the
Grush story? It's crazy. But in this
case, I'm talking to this journalist at
the Wall Street Journal trying to help
my friend out, and she's actually
somewhat open-minded, but like she just,
you know, it's one of these things where
it's like it seems so beyond the pale,
and if you don't understand the the
deeper research and you haven't gone
down the rabbit hole, it's kind of like
in one ear, out the other. And she then
says, "I don't know. We have this um we
have this like consultant that we talk
to about UFOs here. Uh and his name is
David Spurggle. And you know where I'm
going with this. And David Spurggle
tells me that it's all uh uh space trash
uh temperature inversions and light
reflections. And in my head I'm thinking
that's exactly what Don Menzel would say
in the 50s to throw people off the
trail. And David Spurggle not only did
the NASA UAP review panel in 2023, but
he happens to run the Simons Foundation,
you know, uh uh um and uh you know, as a
scientific adviser and is very embedded
in like you know, DOE research and
that's where if you both if you know
what we both know, that's where the
bodies are buried.
Absolutely. No, and it's it's funny. I
one of the things in my line of work is
we have a vulgar expression which is
always assume a [__] before a
conspiracy. Like conspiracies happen so
rarely
and invariably it's the it's the
screw-ups that that are the explanation
rather than active conspiracy. In this
case, I have been led reluctantly to the
conclusion this is a conspiracy
that there really is a group, a cabal, a
leadership cabal that is actively
conniving to deceive the public.
Why do why do you think that going back
to your earlier question of like what's
the big deal? Why do you think they hide
it?
I think they've convinced themselves cuz
I I I actually asked somebody from
Loheed Martin this.
Perfect. What's up, guys? I want to tell
you about my new favorite boots. These
things are epic. I've been wearing these
everywhere. They're called Brunt.
They're insanely comfortable and
durable. These things last for years and
they're super versatile. I wear them for
hiking, for hanging out. They look
pretty swaggy if you're going out. They
even look good in work meetings. They
feel incredibly comfortable. There's no
annoying breakin period. They just kind
of form fit to your foot right off the
bat. They're lightweight. You don't have
to lug them around. but they're also
super weather resistant, waterproof, and
durable. Brunt is committed to making
sure you're 100% satisfied with your new
gear. With over 500,000 customers
already on board, these boots are the
best in the category. Take it from me.
Brunt makes the most epic, durable, and
comfortable work boots. For a limited
time, our listeners get $10 off at Brunt
by using code Jesse at checkout. Just
head to bruntwork.com
and use code Jesse and you're all set.
Even better, Brunt lets you try all
their products on the job riskfree. Just
go to bruntworkwear.com
and use code Jesse for $10 off. Again,
that's bruntwork.com.
Code Jesse. After you purchase, they
will ask you where you heard about them.
Please support our show and tell them
that we sent you.
So, so somebody rang me out of the blue
from Loheed Martin. I won't say who they
are and convey who they are, but they
were they were an executive, a very
senior executive. And we were playing a
delicate dance. They heard me say
something
and they were thanking me for not
putting them in it and for more
accurately reflecting the true state of
events about something.
And essentially it was an implicit
acknowledgement by that Loheed Martin
executive that they are holding alien
technology.
And I just blurted it out. I said,
"Look, can I ask you a question?" I
said, "I promise you I'm not recording
you."
Why?
Yeah.
Why not just come out and say? He said,
"It's not us."
Yeah.
He said, "It's the agency."
Interesting.
He said, "We want to do it." And then
that's how I found out about the
attempt by Bigalow Aerospace.
There's this [__] story about
metamaterials that,
God bless them, Leslie and Ralph put in
the New York Times story.
That was always nonsense. It wasn't
metamaterials. It was a spacecraft.
Right. Loheed Martin was going to pass
on control of an alien spacecraft to
Bigalow Aerospace. That's the real
story.
Mhm. And you hear rumors that maybe it
was the Kingman craft in 3.
Yeah. And so the the interesting thing
is the um the CIA intervened to stop
that from happening or at least the
Office of Global Access as it was once
known
and it was it was Glenn Gaffne, right?
It was now
It's interesting. I'm not 100% sure it
was Glen Gaffne. But people have denied
that from the inside, but I don't know
if that's disinformation.
Okay.
Glen Gaffffne's definitely been involved
in the cover up,
right? Yeah. No, for sure.
Yeah.
And Australia, I I remember when I first
met you, it was at the Soul Foundation a
couple years ago, and Australia has its
own fascinating history that I remember
asking you about at the time. You have
this guy named Harry Turner. Oh,
I love Harry Turner.
Tell us about Harry Turner.
Well, good friend of mine, Bill Chalker,
who's probably Australia's preeminent
UAP researcher. He got to know Harry
really well while Harry was alive. And
Harry had been in his youth as a young
20some a young physicist recently
qualified from Melbourne University. And
he expressed an interest in
investigating UFOs to the then
government and they'd invited him to
come on board back in those more learned
and insightful days when governments
didn't try and hide evidence of UFOs.
They invited this young physicist in to
analyze UFO sightings because they were
like the Americans trying to investigate
them. And we were involved in a
collaborative relationship with America
providing information to Project Blue
Book handing over some of the more
interesting news Australian and New
Zealand sightings cases. And there was a
collaborative exchange of data and
information which there still is
secretly but I won't get to that until
later. But the um the interesting thing
is Harry Turner somehow fell into the
Marilinga nuclear test program and when
the British were developing their
nuclear weapon, God bless the British,
they let their bombs off in the middle
of Australia. And uh I've been involved
in doing stories about what a dreadful
scandal that was and how aboriginal
people died in their droves from
horrible cancers and so did the
servicemen
who were involved in supervising the
tests.
But there's two ranges. There's the
Marilinga range where the bombs were
tested and there's the Wra range where
they tested the ICBMs. And Woomer is
still very active. It's where the
Americans have secretly been testing
hypersonic missile technology. And
there's a huge level of collaboration
secretly between Australia and the US
where a lot of your dirty aerospace gets
brought out to Australia. And
funnily enough, it's neither here nor
there. I've had many Aboriginal
communities that are often the only
communities out there in these remote
parts of Australia who've described
black triangles flying over their
communities, silent black triangles.
Wow. Something is, I'm sure, being
tested in the Australian outback.
Wow.
But Harry in the 19 whenever the nuclear
tests started, I think it was in the
1950s
and into the 60s,
he was the supervising physicist on the
range at Miralinga
and he was invited to investigate
multiple UA UAP sightings that took
place at Miralinga during the sightings.
And there are still reports in the
archives of those UAP sightings and I
put a lot of them in my book. And um
there's a young fellow who I've just put
an article of his up on a website in
Australia uh Reese Delton Moore and he's
basically his grandfather ran the Wormer
test range and it turns out he was
secretly involved in investigating
uh Rhese Morgan. I apologize. and his
grandfather was involved in secret
investigations with the British
government in the late 1950s, late 1940s
in Britain into UFOs.
And so it turned out there's this whole
area of physicists including Harry
Turner who were witness to UFO incidents
in their droves in the Marilinger and
Wmer test range areas during the 50s and
the 60s. And so after he'd done that
work, Harry went on to work in the
equivalent of the DIA, the Defense
Intelligence Agency in Australia, which
at the time was known as the Joint
Intelligence Organization, JIO.
And he in 1972
wrote an extraordinary paper which lots
of people keep on sending me going,
"Wow, you must read this, Ross. You
wouldn't know about this." And I've
blooming written chapters about it and
talked about it for years. I find it
fascinating. Harry wrote this definitive
piece which basically was a report to
the chief of Jio recommending that the
Defense Department of Australia set up a
a UFO flying squad to investigate UFOs
and it was under serious active
consideration. You can see that they
weren't going to dismiss their chief
scientist in a hurry. And he made a very
authoritative argument that the
Americans were essentially lying.
Mhm. And I have a strong suspicion
because there was an enormous amount of
liaison between physicists from America
and physicists from Australia that there
was a bit of cross-pollation that that
Harri had picked up stuff from American
nuclear physicists
who were aware of the early stages of
the American Legacy program. Well, you
told me one time that like some of the
greybeards you've spoken to in the
Australian context talked about Robert
Sarbacher coming and visiting them and
obviously
Robert Robert Sarbacher was definitely
involved in liaison. The most
interesting thing is a lot of the
Australian scientists, including Harry
at one stage, went on um expeditions to
the Pacific tests because the Americans
were trying to suck up to us for
exploding bombs in our backyard by
inviting us to be part of these tests
and to be witnesses to them. And of
course, they were polluting vast parts
of Micronesia, spraying nuclear residue
all over huge parts of the Marshall
Islands and Johnson at all. huge numbers
of communities. I've been out to the
Marshall Islands and Johnson at hole
briefly and it is really quite amazing
to think that they were exploding
thermonuclear weapons in the open, but I
think there was a lot of
cross-pollination there as well between
Australian scientists and American
scientists. It's pretty obvious Harry
picked up a lot of information and he
wrote this absolutely candid analysis
that the Americans clearly have some
kind of retrieval program. He talked
about Roswell. He talked about other
retrievalss and he talked about how the
Americans were clearly keeping this from
us. And look even in present day this is
strategically significant for us in
Australia because I was involved in
1994. That's how old I am. Uh, in
another story about spies where I
revealed that our intelligence service,
the equivalent of the CIA, ASUS in
Australia, did plausibly deniable favors
for its allies, America and the UK under
the Five Eyes Alliance. And there were
amazing examples of plausib plausibly
deniable favors where for example
Australian technical operators, people
who did bugging and tapping were
borrowed by the Brits and MI6 would ring
the Australians and say I say old chap,
can I borrow one of your tech ops lads?
And we we spoke to some of these people
who were involved in these technical
operations. And they told us how one of
them had flown to Q8 after the first
Gulf War. And there was a huge amount of
money going for contracts for the
rebuilding of Q8. Multi-billion dollar
fat juicy cost plus contracts. And there
were Australian construction companies
involved in bidding wars with British
companies to win these incredibly
lucrative contracts. And so the Brits
secretly borrowed one of the technical
operators buggers from Australia to win
a commercial advantage against Australia
by bugging the Q80 government officers
on behalf of British intelligence. And
it blew me away. I verified this
directly with some of the people
involved in the operation that
Australian
spooks
were used this way as plausibly deniable
operatives to do things that the British
wanted to be entirely off the books. And
if they'd been caught doing it, they
would have it would have been my
government, Australian government, that
was compromised, not the Brits. And
we've been doing this kind of dirty work
for years in the Five Eyes Alliance.
That story was like incendury inside the
Five Eyes Alliance. I
I know it upset a lot of people because
it revealed the dirty little secret that
the Kiwis and the Aussies and to a
lesser extent the Canadians. They do the
[__] that the Brits and the Americans
want to deny, including spying on their
allies
and bugging, including in some cases
their allies. Mhm.
And I I met this group of people who'd
been involved in these operations and
that wasn't always in the back of my
mind when I was investigating the UFO
stuff. So when I later on started
investigating UAP retrieval operations,
I knew people from special forces in
Australia, including retired special
forces people who'd worked in a
particular era. when I knew there were
allegedly American retrieval operations
involving UFOs and they told me they'd
been involved in retrieval operations.
And the incredible thing was,
wow,
the Australian government was never
briefed into these retrieval operations.
Wow.
They were paid cash US dollars just to
keep their mouths shut. They were asked
to sign NDAs.
And if you think about it, it's perfect.
Yeah. There were no US personnel
involved in this operation.
Right. Right. And it's not even
the Australian government didn't know
and these guys walked away with fat
checks and were kept very happy. This is
why the fact of the Canadian involvement
in retrievalss and um reverse
engineering efforts has been kept so
secret for so long
because Canadian scientists have been
and are involved in the legacy program
and it's been kept secret from the
Canadian people and um the only reason
I'm aware of this stuff is because I
know to look for it because of the
stories I've done previously
about things like Echelon and the
plausibly deniable favors of secret
services exchanging each other's men to
do dirty tricks on each other.
And that woke me up. I I I I knew to ask
the question when I was questioning
people in the program and they'd say,
"Oh, yeah. I remember the Aussies. I
remember that guy." Yeah. And it's
interesting because people wanted to
talk about it because when I really
pushed the issue to come back to the
actual question you'd asked me, there
was no good reason for this to be kept
secret.
Mhm.
And that blew me away. And Harry Turner
was the very early
proponent of the fact that Australia was
having the wool pulled over its eyes.
Yeah. And I care about this issue
because we're currently negotiating.
We've actually agreed to buy
billion dollars worth of Virginia class
nuclear attack submarines
from your government in America
because we supposedly need them as a
strategic deterrence to deal with the
Chinese. And what it's really all about
is helping you guys fight the next war
that they think they're going to have
with China and maintaining American
imperial hegemony.
And there are a lot of people, including
a former Australian prime minister I
know, Paul Keating, who've said
publicly, why are we so slavishly doing
these things for the American alliance?
And I think there's a fundamental deceit
that lies at the heart of this alliance
and its UAPs. M
and I've [clears throat] raised this at
a very high level with our government
and I've had people in our government
say to me, Ross, give me the evidence.
Yeah. Well, I'm going to link that
document at the bottom of the at the in
the description of this video because
it's an amazing document. It talks about
crash retrievals. It confirms all these
things that you have to kind of do deep
research in the US to even know, which
is Blue Book is fake. blue book. It was
this total PR, you know, job to
rationalize and it kept bling away UFO
sightings in the 50s and 60s. And then
it goes into the fact that the real work
around anti-gravity was going on and you
had people like Oenheimer, right,
Wheeler, uh Freeman Dyson, our top
scientists all investigating this stuff.
And it even lists the outposts of the
CIA office of scientific intelligence
studying this. It talks about University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, where we
know that they were funding Thomas Towns
and Brown and all sorts of other, you
know, anti-gravity stuff. So, it's a
it's a fascinating document. Speaking of
the Marshall Islands, you before me
actually broke this amazing story about
Bluegill Triple Prime.
Oh, yeah.
You with uh Jeffrey Krookshank, who um
is is a really amazing researcher and
also comes from the nuclear world.
And what got you onto that story? And
now I you know I want to talk about this
with you because there's a little bit of
controversy around Harold Nom.
Well I I I know and I I've seen um
Jeff's also published a rebuttal to
Douglas Dean Johnson's hatchet job.
I will link that too.
Yeah. And and it's interesting cuz I
haven't had a chance to read his
rebuttal yet. I thought Douglas raised
some legitimate points and I'm really
interested to see
uh the academic argument back from Jeff.
I just haven't had a chance to read it
yet. Um but yeah, I mean how did I get
into that? I was as a young man, I was
living in New Zealand when these tests
were happening in some cases and it was
I can tell you a big issue that both the
Yanks and the French, particularly the
French at Mirror,
were exploding thermonuclear weapons in
our backyard. And I can remember um as a
much younger journalist, I learned how
to use the archives. And one of the
early documents I found in the
Australian archives were was evidence of
secret testing of animals for radiation
residue from those nuclear experiments
that were at the time kept from the
Australian and New Zealand public. And
[snorts] there were nucleotides showing
quite concerning levels of radioactive
isotopes
coming from weapons testing, including,
by the way, Marilinga and um
and um other explosions that had taken
place in islands off the coast of
Australia that showed that contrary to
what the public had been told, there
were radioactive elements getting into
the blood and the the bodies of human
beings. Even more importantly, there was
a discernable
sigma move, if you like, showing a
statistical lift in cancer rates.
Mhm.
And this was never revealed. It was
never talked about.
And uh I I just I I guess I grew up in
that environment of deep skepticism. I
was also um living in New Zealand around
the time of the attack by the French on
the Greenpeace boat in Oakland Harbor
where um an environmental vessel that
was being used by Greenpeace to go and
demonstrate against the Muroa atole
nuclear tests was blown up by the Deja
SA French intelligence in intelligence
operation slap bang in the middle of
Oakland Harbor. I mean an incredible
operation. I mean, incredible French
arrogance to think that they could do
that and not get caught. And the stupid
buggers, if they just hadn't tried to
get the deposit back on their rental
car, the French would have got away with
one of the most awful crimes of that
time of recent history. But um you know,
there was this sorted period where the
great imperial powers of the world were
looking for rental for real estate to
explode their nuclear weapons. and both
the US and France used the the South
Pacific and or the Pacific and um it was
a big political issue for me as a young
man in New Zealand and much later in
Australia as well. People were concerned
about this. Why the hell are we allowing
the Yanks to do this? And when Marilinga
came out, very much in 1988,
there was a huge court case by
servicemen in the UK where all of the
dirty secrets of Marilinga came out. And
all of these horrible revelations of
toxic radiation exposure were finally
revealed. And the Marilinga Royal
Commission remains, I think, one of the
most sensational public inquiries of
that era because essentially it was
crimes committed by the state on the
justification of national security
exposing servicemen and women to high
levels of radiation that in some cases
killed people.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean that's that's
the history and that's the backdrop of
uh you know some of these interesting
UFO stories where we do have this well
doumented you know nuclear connection.
You've interviewed Robert Hastings. I've
interviewed Robert Hastings
and um I do think it's interesting with
this with this Malmrim case. I think
there's a lot of circumstantial evidence
to to say that this this actually
happened. And I don't know what you
think, but
look, yeah, I mean, I I I'm not prepared
to stake my my hand to my heart and say
I think Harold was telling the truth.
Yeah.
I'm not prepared to say yet I think he
was lying. And part of this is driven my
my my deep respect and admiration for
Pipper.
Mhm.
And I I I do feel where the way Douglas
did it was quite heartless and
malicious. Well,
in the way that he did it that so soon
after
the death of a man who family are still
treasuring, I think it could have been
done in a more gentle way.
And I had the feeling a little bit too
much when I was reading Harold's write
up, not Harold's, um, Douglas's writeup.
This is Douglas Dean Johnson who who
wrote an analysis of the claims of
Harold Monggrren
that substantiated the
the allegation that there was a UFO
retrieved in the triple bluegirl triple
prime bluegirl tests in the Pacific.
And
yes, it is odd that there's no paperwork
that substantiates this. But is it
possible for example that because of the
role that Harold was playing of course
there was no paperwork?
Yes. Well that is the his hysterography
of the time right we are talking to an
audience that probably believes that the
CIA had a hand in killing JFK. Then you
ask people
I have no doubt.
No doubt right yeah they're all sure.
And then you ask okay so how'd that get
coordinated? Who called the shots?
They're like oh it's it's Alan Dulles.
Where was Alan Dulles at the time? Was
he at the CIA? No he wasn't. He was at
the Brown Brothers Heramman where he had
left this guy. We're also talking to an
audience that is loves to talk about Tim
Taylor. This like really interesting
character that inserts himself in Diana
Pulka's life, says he's part of the
secret space stuff. And where was he
working? He's was NASA mission
controller, but he was also at a
federally funded research and
development center called Aerospace
Corporation. So that is the backdrop.
That is the lens through which you have
to understand that this guy is working
at the Institute of Defense. analysis,
another federal federally funded
research development,
which I'm told by my intelligence
friends, is used as a front.
It is used as a front. He said in a 2024
interview with Robin Leard, I was the
cover was that I was at the um IDA, but
in fact, uh I was actually helping the
joint chiefs in the Pentagon.
I know he couldn't say this and and
other people we both know can't reveal
that they're CIA as well, but do you
think it's possible Harold was CIA? I do
and and I'm going to be coming out with
a more extensive video on this uh
because I think it's important to say
and I I actually wanted to say it as
part of the story, but I wanted to
respect his sort of gentlemanly desire
to sort of keep it shut at the end. But
you okay, here are a few a few fun
facts. If you watch that interview I did
with him, uh he says, "I was best
friends with Tom Farmer. Happened to be
the GC, the general counsel of the CIA.
He says, you know, oh, I was living at
Nabacov's house. And then Pippa says,
"Yeah, there's all these CIA connections
with Nabacov." Um, he says he he helped
create the presidential daily brief,
which is a CIA thing, like over I was
holding Paul Melon's walking stick. You
think he bought that at a yard sale?
Paul Melon founded the CIA. So, this is
really important because a lot of the
the Douglas Dean Johnson, you know, uh,
debunk is like, I spoke to an archivist
here. I spoke to a person here and they
didn't know him. But but but the the
crux of it, the heart of it is he didn't
have a Q clearance. If that Q clearance
came through him being part of the CIA,
which he was part of the CIA, you
wouldn't be able to query it. It
wouldn't be in some FBI
be written down in a file and released
to the public.
Absolutely not.
One of the things you can make a
discretionary thing to do is to is to
redact any evidence that somebody held a
Q clearance.
Absolutely.
Because the fact of somebody holding a Q
clearance is in and of itself
potentially compromising a special
access program.
Yes. Totally. And the Institute of
Defense Analysis has been formally even
on paper involved in every single
missile defense program after Bluegill.
So Stratex to THAAD and Aegis now to you
know Star Wars in the 80s. IDA has its
fingerprints over all of it. Not to
mention, you'd appreciate this. You have
you spoken to Bob Jacobs ever 64?
Yeah, many times.
So yeah, I'm sure you have some great
content with him. Um he's a really
believable guy in my opinion. He was
deleted by the government and then you
know Mansman his major in the air force.
What a brave act by Mansman
to to go back and say
so this is a guy just to explain to our
audience this is a guy Bob Jacobs who as
a young captain
in the US Air Force was asked to
photograph a fairly mundane launch of an
ICBM test prototype missile from Edwards
Air Force Base. In the course of the
launch of that missile,
they didn't know it at the time, but
when they reviewed the film footage,
there is a UFO circling the warhead and
shooting at it with a laser beam. And of
course, the usual suspects attacked him
when he came public in Omni magazine in
the ' 70s and basically said he'd seen
this and said, "That's just a load of
nonsense." And to his great credit, I
love the one of the things I I think we
often we tend I certainly do in the
media. You tend to assume the worst
about all military and all intelligence.
But the thing I've learned, especially
from reporting from war zones, is there
really is an honor in the American
officer class and these men and women
are inculcated with a decency
that is drilled into them. It's a
character thing to be truthful. And so
the commanding officer of Bob Jacobs,
he'd been there when they'd watched this
film.
Mhm.
And Bob asked him for support and he
supported him.
Mhm.
And verified that that's exactly what
happened and that these two I think CIA
guys had basically told them to shut up
about it.
That's exactly right. And so the the
update here why Bob Jacobs is related at
all the Malgrren is people don't know
this. I have footage of Bob Jacobs. Bob
Jacobs was stationed at Johnson at Toll
but in 1963 so a year after Bluegill.
Bob, you had such an interesting
experience at Vandenberg in ' 64. I
didn't realize you were actually
stationed at the Marshall Islands before
that and that you were involved in the
operation fishbowl tests. Is that right?
First of all, I was officer in charge of
optical instrumentation in Vanderb 13th
photo squadron. As such, we were charged
with high-speed esportation photography
of every single missile missile launched
down the western test range. We had a
detachment at Johnston Island in the
Marshalss and I was sent down there for
a period of time and I believe it was
November of 1963, not 62. the scuttleb
at the time by every single person on
that island. When I got there, this was
engineers, technicians, um my airmen who
had been down there before me,
we were told that what happened is the
the Soviets had launched a nuke into
orbit up above us. And JFK told
Krushchev, "Take that down." Kristoff
said, "I won't do it." JFK said, "Then
we'll shoot it down." and Crus said,
"You don't have the technology to do
that." We were down there, according to
the common talk at the time, to shoot
down that nuclear missile, that nuclear
weapon in orbit. I was told
that that that launch had happened and
that several things had happened because
of it. First of all, something had
fallen down toward the island from that
explosion in the sky. The explosion lit
up the entire South Pacific and and
caused all sorts of alarm and reports of
UFOs and so on
and something had been recovered. I was
never told what it was. So that that's
fascinating. I actually want to be
clear, the incident that I'm referring
to is the Bluegill Triple Prime test
which is at the end of Operation
Fishbowl in October of 1962.
It's October 26, so it's during the
Cuban Missile Crisis. And so you're
saying that the kind of rumors at the
time, you know, at the bar sort of
thing, uh, were that a Soviet warhead
was actually knocked out of the sky as a
part of that operation. Is that right?
That's what I understand. Yes.
But here's what's interesting. We've
never had nukes in space.
No.
Not to my knowledge. So unless there's
some double story here where like you
know we actually did take out a nuke in
space which I don't think we did.
It sounds like an expos SCOP
disinformation operation.
That's right. But even then there were
rumor widespread rumors of people on the
ground that there was a UFO shootown
that that's taken place and the only
alternative is is a nuke which obviously
isn't true. So I find that very
interesting along with if uh there there
were um there was a foyer request of the
national uh nuclear security
administration and it was for everything
you know all these UFO related acronyms
and this was around starfish prime so it
was a little earlier
and uh they basically say the responsive
records you know we we we can't give you
any of the responsive records showing
that there are responsive records with
those names in them. Um and then it says
with the subject matter expert we have
to consult them on this topic or
whatever. So there are there's a lot in
my opinion of circumstantial evidence
this point.
Yeah. I mean my I keep on coming back to
the fact that if there's a stinky dirty
secret you don't write it down
right
and if if Harold as he alleged was
working for example in the um the White
House undercover
um they wouldn't put his name in the uh
address book. you know, they I mean, I I
I'm still keeping an open mind and I I
think it's slightly naive to think that
everything would be written down.
Well, I've also seen his diaries which
are now in a safe place and they are
backed up. So, don't mess with them. And
I have seen a lot of meetings between
Harold Malgm and Richard Bissell.
Oh, wow.
In the diary. Richard Bissell, who
founded Area 51, mayor of Area 51,
and it was key to Harold Malgren's
claims that he was read into the
existence of the legacy UAP retrieval
program by Richard Bissell.
There you go. Yeah. So,
who went on to become a deputy director
of the CIA.
That's right. He went on become the
number two at at the CIA. So,
fascinating. what you know along the
lines of what we were talking about
earlier. You've probably met more people
in and around these programs than
anybody else alive in the from the
outside.
Please don't say that too loudly.
[laughter]
You know, it's funny. When I came
through on the weekend to come here,
um I was actually nervous. I've never
been nervous coming into the US before,
but there's been a lot of stories in the
Australian press about young people who
were just turned away by border
protection for no good reason and
harassed
for no good reason. And there's been a
change of culture at the border.
Mhm.
And um I have to admit I had my computer
on autodee if it was opened.
Yeah.
Uh when I when I came through customs.
Wow. And um I was ready to go live on
national television if I was detained by
Border Protection.
Wow.
Which actually happened to me after I
did the Grush story.
Really?
Yeah. After I did the Grush story, I was
detained and held by CBP.
Oh my god.
And um a mutual friend of ours made some
inquiries and confirmed that there'd
been some kind of a flag put on my um on
my file.
Unfortunately, it was so high level they
couldn't access it. But basically,
somebody I suspect from the agency had
flagged, "We want to know when Kulart
comes through next, and let's cause them
some mischief." And I have to admit, I
um we have a euphemism in Australia
tearing somebody a new [__]
I I I just wasn't going to put up with
it. I I very I summoned my anger and
basically yelled at Border Protection
and said, "I strongly advise that you
get on the phone, whoever it is that's
flagged me,
contact them now or tell them I will be
going live on television
in about 10 minutes to talk about the
fact that I'm being illegally held. I
have a valid visa. You have no good
reason to hold me. If you want to fight,
you can have one." And I was let out.
Good for you, man. Well, I think you're
hope hopefully you're protected and
you're protected by the by the public
because I think you
Well, it's funny. I look, I I must
confess I've been quite humbled coming
to where we are, which is a
Everybody here knows who you are.
I've been mobbed.
Yeah, [laughter] I believe you.
And and and it's funny. My my wife and
children think it's hilarious that that
there is this fandom. Uh there's even a
guy, God bless him, in Germany who's
done a three-dimensional model of me
with far too much hair, which is quite
flattering. doesn't show the gut and it
doesn't show the lack of hair. And um my
wife and children just wanted to know
whether it had a bobblehead like this so
we could stick it on the front of the
car.
Oh [laughter] my god, that's amazing.
That's hilarious. But, you know, I'm I'm
really touched by the fact that people
care about this issue and and just to
make it serious for a moment.
Um, the issue is still ridiculed in much
of the British style English language,
Australasian press. You know, I get
mocked and ridiculed by my journalist
colleagues because I take UFOs
seriously,
you know, and people will pjoratively
sneer. How's your UFO obsession, Ross?
or there's actually a national
broadcaster, the ABC in Australia, and
one pompous [__] on that broadcaster
said, "Oh, Ross Koulark, he's been
investigating UFOs. He's either
completely crazy or he's the best
journalist ever."
Ah, that's the best comment that you
could ever get.
But it was a snide. It was deliberately
snide because the clear inference was I
was a [__] house.
I was a [__] house journalist and I was
obviously going crazy. But the thing I'm
really heartened by is
the degree of interest that sparked me
getting hired by NewsNation is
incredible. When we did the David Grush
interview,
NewsNation, admittedly not at the time a
very high rating news channel. I
know you brought it on the map.
It escalated its ratings by 990%.
That was written up in the industry
press.
It's amazing. And they still say to me
that UFOs, UFOs is the issue that saved
the network.
Yeah.
And it's a really interesting issue
because
the audience, no matter what the
mainstream media do to ignore this
issue, you know, you've got the
doctrinire attitude of the New York
Times, we're not going to do UFO
stories. We're going to reject the David
Grush story.
You know, the the Jake the Jake Barber
story wouldn't fly in any of the
national media.
I don't think it's had a coverage
anywhere.
I don't think it's had a coverage. Yes.
And yet the public,
they make it clear they really want this
story. That's right.
And they can smell, another journalistic
euphemism I'll give you, they can smell
a smelly turd when they smell one.
Mhm.
And this story stinks to high heaven.
Yeah.
And they can smell [__]
And what fascinates me is particularly
the younger generation.
Mhm.
I'm amazed. I've never had a story. I've
always been the kind of old fart of
journalism, you know, uh, and doing
investigative stories that not many
people are really that interested in,
but they matter because they're sort of
interesting points of principle. This
one really captures the imagination of
the millennials and the ex generation.
It's amplifying what I do on NewsNation.
And I don't know how to use Instagram or
Tik Tok, but there are kids that are
making a living out of repackaging my
stories on Instagram and Tik Tok. And my
daughters are constantly coming to me
saying, "Dad, have a look at this. This
guy's making a fortune over doing your
stories on TikTok." And I go, "Look, I
don't know how to do it. I haven't got
time to do it. Good luck to them. You
know, it's great." But what it's done is
it's generated this massive audience.
Mhm.
And I I'm not trying not to sound
boastful, but you know, we're routinely
getting millions of views for stories
that, frankly, I'm genuinely surprised
and excited and interested that people
are watching them. Well, you're doing an
amazing job. And ju just a recent one
which I I was watching in preparation
for this and I I was so fascinated by is
you were um in Sedona, Arizona.
Oh yeah.
And it was like if you watch watch this
video, it is the most mind-blowing video
ever. [laughter]
Let me tell you, let me tell you. I am
in no doubt whatsoever, Jesse, that
there is a deep underground military
bunker that was built in the 1950s under
Secret Mountain. That's what it's
called. It's the hilarious thing. It's
somebody's secret joke. It's called
Secret Mountain.
Unbelievable.
Near Sedona. It's within 57 km of
Sedona.
And more importantly, there's a place
called Secret Canyon where there's
allegedly a portal, some kind of
interdimensional portal. And I thought
all of this was just crazy nonsense.
But there are incredibly brave and super
super interesting people. Jeremiah
Hostman and his wife Alexandra
particularly
who live in Sedona and they've been
doing some really clever on the ground
research
and one of the things we did a lot of
the stuff we got as so often happens you
can't put it in the story because you
can't get these people to go on camera
but there was a number of people who
would privately admit that they'd been
walking in what is public land public
parkland and they'd be stopped by men
with guns, men in uniform with with with
automatic weapons, clearly highly
trained elite soldiers, probably tier
one operatives from the way they moved.
And they would basically order people,
"Go away or we will kill you." No, no
mucking around. And there are sightings,
numerous sightings of what we saw. I saw
it with my own eyes. I was told that the
best time of night is around about 1:30
in the morning. And if you looked at a
particular place over Secret Mountain,
you would see this big orb being
escorted by helicopters rising from
behind Secret Mountain. So I was
skeptical, but we went out with a local
lady, Melinda Leslie, who has some good
quality uh military grade night vision
goggles. And we watched at 1:30 in the
morning. And sure enough, [music]
up comes this beautiful golden orb,
gigantic. It pulses. It's plasmatic.
It slowly moves off. And the way it
moved, you couldn't tell if it's because
it got smaller or whether it went so
fast that it just disappeared so
quickly, but it just dis disappeared.
And they were they were being escorted
by military Blackhawk helicopters.
Dozens of them. I mean, the helicopter
fuel bill alone for the evening that
we're watching them must have been
somewhere between $50 to $100,000.
Somebody is paying huge money to operate
orbs with no visible means of propulsion
over Secret Mountain in Sedona. And it's
funny because um one of the people told
us that um if you want to hide
something, you hide it in plain sight.
And that's the best way to describe
what's going on in what I think is
happening in Sedona. [gasps]
And
do you think that's NHI, non-human? Do
you think it's it's manmade or
I mean there are allegations that that
base is NHI. I've had people who are
psionic tell me that they have detected
NHI in in that area. Sedona is also a
strange place. It's a place
[clears throat] everybody says when you
go weird stuff happens to you.
Yeah. No, it does. And and I I never
expected to see such overt displays of
obviously anomalous
technology
in company with obviously
militarystyle
aircraft.
And you show footage it's which is
amazing. And then you also show all
these sort of logical fallacies of the
cover story where it's like I think
there's like a contract between Northern
Arizona University, but like none of the
professors ever show up or whatever.
And it's and it's funny because um what
we're talking about is the Bradshaw
Ranch. And
there's allegedly a portal in the
Bradshaw Ranch that was seen by the
former owner of the ranch, Linda
Bradshaw. and she actually took
photographs of it and um it opened up in
a particular area of
the ground around that ranch which just
so happens to be the area that's fenced
off and we noticed that there is a tower
in the middle of that area. This is
supposedly a deserted ranch. There's
nobody there. There's no electrical
power and there's solar panels on this
post that has a camera. Now, if you're
protecting the security of what is
supposedly an academic research
institution, you have the camera pointed
out so that you can see people coming
from the outside.
Yeah.
But you know where the camera's
pointing?
Where?
It's pointing exactly at the point where
Linda Bradshaw says she saw the portal.
And then the other thing we noticed when
we were there, and this was picked up by
my friend Paul, who's an Australian
ground penetrating radar operator, he um
he heard a humming
and he kicks a bush aside and there's
this gigantic three-phase fire power box
with a cable definitely going into the
ground. Wow. Three-phase power and it's
humming. And then we walk a bit further
around and there's another one.
And there's massive amounts of
electrical power going into the ground
under Bradshaw Ranch.
And we didn't put this in the um
featurelength film that we put to air on
prime time, but it runs in the
fulllength interview with Paul, my
friend.
He did a ground penetrating radar check
on the road around Bradshaw Ranch and we
found a 50 foot wide reinforced steel
concrete highly visible on ground
penetrating radar literally just under
the ground.
Wa.
I mean I'm in no doubt whatsoever it's
there.
Can you get down there?
No. I mean I was half tempted to get a
shovel and start digging, you know. But
the the interesting thing is um the
other thing we we we learned about was
there's an egress point into this whole
secret facility
called the Clark Dale Cement Plant. And
the weird thing about it is it's nowhere
near Secret Mountain. It's halfway
between two mountain ranges, but it if
you run a direct line between those two
mountain ranges and put it through
Bradshaw Ranch where we know there's a
tunnel or at least we picked up the
tunnel and if you match the walls of the
tunnel with where it goes, it goes
directly
wow
to the Clarkdale cement plant. And one
of the things we heard about from locals
was that 20 years ago the drilling was
so intense that things were shaking on
the bookshelves and they were obviously
tunneling underneath the village at
Clarkdale where these people live
and people were even compensated for
damage. Wow. And you know, I mean, the I
don't understand as a journalist. I
mean, I've been taught journalism
to do the work on the ground and go and
ask the question. Don't accept what
you're told by some defense PR flunky.
Go in and check and do the basic
checking. And I think the interesting
thing is that this is all coming out at
a time
in journalism where sadly investigative
journalism is in serious decline because
even the great mast head newspapers like
the New York Times, the Wash Post, the
LA Times, the Boston Globe, the
Baltimore Sun
papers I grew up like I didn't have Bay
City rollers on my wall. I used to paste
up big newspaper investigations. That's
what I always wanted to be. And um it's
sad because that era of great big budget
investigative journalism where they
would deploy teams of people to go and
investigate stuff, it's well and truly
over. And the big unspoken secret about
the New York Times is even the New York
Times doesn't have the resources to do
this kind of journalism. But all you
need to do, if I was the editor of a
newspaper today, I would put 10 days
into deploying a couple of investigative
journalists to go up from Phoenix and
have a look at what I saw in Sedona, and
you will find a deep underground
military facility that is highly
protected, has hydraulically operated
doors in the side of mountain sides, and
is secretly operating what I suspect is
non-human technology.
It's amazing. And it corroborates
uh you know Larry Saunders who wrote a
book about deep underground military
bases.
Richard Saers
Richard Saunders sorry thank you and
Katherine Austin Fitz who talks about
large you know trillions of dollars
missing from the the federal budget from
the DoD budget to to go towards these
these projects. So uh and then Nat
Kobitz's story and other story Randy
Anderson's story. So
at what point though do I mean this is
the thing I don't get. I I really don't
get it. It's almost like there's a
willful blindness in
cuz why do we expect the mainstream
media to follow this? Because they
should.
Yeah.
Oh, they they really should. It's like
the most interesting important thing.
And it's if you talk about like an
Archimedes lever, like the point of most
leverage, I mean, you can cover like
local griffs, right? But why don't you
cover like the trillions of dollars
missing from the from the DoD's budget
or why don't you, you know, this stuff?
I love that quote and it's a true quote.
I actually dug it out when I was writing
my book that Donald Rumsfeld admitted
that there was something is it $23
trillion missing from the defense
budget.
2.1 trillion missing in an audit the day
before 9/11 happened.
The day before 911
trillions of dollars disappearing from
the American defense budget.
And that's actually one thing I really
liked about what Dog was doing.
Yeah.
Musk was basically saying,
"Why the hell do you not have the
acquitt numbering that allows you to
reconcile what this money is for with
where it's being spent?" Well, there was
an amazing I think it was like Babylon B
like headline or something and it was
Elon Musk leaves job of making
government more efficient for easier job
of allowing humans to occupy more
[laughter] which is like this guy
doesn't give up on anything. you know,
the a successful car company hadn't been
built in the US since like the 1910s or
something, and you have them build
Tesla. You have him single-handedly
resuscitate, you know, a version of NASA
with SpaceX and and and he gives up with
with government efficiency.
I had to interview Elon in 2015.
That's amazing. Australian 60 minutes.
Wow. How was that? Well, it was funny
because I honestly genuinely had the
feeling that like 1% of his brain was
answering my questions and [laughter]
the the other 99% was working on another
problem.
But the thing I was really impressed
with was he he was excited to show me
around the SpaceX factory in uh LA
because that was where they were
building the new rockets. And a lot of
the people in SpaceX, but particularly
in the Tesla factory right next door,
are Aussies
because the Australians had laid off all
of their car industry. We completely
destroyed in an act of utter stupidity
our entire car industry. And so a lot of
those engineers went to work for Elon
and he loved Aussie engineers. But the
thing I was really impressed with was he
knew more about every aspect of the
production line than anybody
that he was showing us that day. And it
wasn't some big performance. He really
did know
and he was asking about metal tolerances
and
you know he really knew his stuff. every
aspect of that production line he knew
intimately
and you could see he had everybody on
his toes and frankly
that's if you're going to be running a
rocket business or an electric car
business that's exactly the kind of
propriety you want.
Yeah. No, it's it's He's incredibly
impressive. He has a unique mind and
ability to to make things happen.
Albeit I'm sure he's probably highly
annoying to live with.
I'm sure. And probably hiding something
when it comes to the UFO issue because
why He's been read in. I've been I've
been told he's been read in.
I Yeah, I I think so, too. Um, speaking
of which, speaking of highle people that
you've spoken to, you were interviewed
by Dawn Jr. by the son of the sitting
president before you broke the Jake
Barber story. What was that like? And
did it give you any hope as far as
American movement on disclosure?
I tell you what, if if Don Trump senior
listens to his son, Don Trump Jr. is
very engaged and interested in UFOs. M
and in a in a really well-informed way
as well. I mean,
uh he's been briefed by a lot of people
and there's been a lot of well, not a
lot, but there's been multiple secret
briefings of the Trump camp before they
came into government. And it's
interesting because I am persuaded, not
at the moment though I'm seeing any
action, but I am persuaded that people
like Tulsi Gabbard, Nash Patel and the
FBI, Del Tulsi of course is the DNI, the
director of national intelligence, um
John Ratcliffe at the CIA. These are all
people who've previously expressed a
strong desire to get to the truth of the
UAP mystery. And I don't think it's any
coincidence that um Representative Anna
Paulina Luna when she was tweeting
earlier this week about what a hopeless
cause Arrow is, that's the Pentagon
UFO Investigation Office.
Good for her.
She she made the observation that they
were obviously a waste of money and
should be defunded. She implied that the
money should go to someone else. And I
think that's the FBI she's talking
about. Yeah,
cuz I'm told that the briefing that the
FBI gave in Congress really blew people
away. And watch that FBI
ongoing investigation. I've I've dealt
with some of the people on the
investigation team
and
I like Gmen. They're they're like dogs
on a bone and they're looking at crimes.
Yeah. Yeah.
Because ultimately, if what we're
talking about here is true,
David Grush
Mhm. Jake Barber.
They have insinuated and alleged are
right in Jake's case that people have
been murdered.
That's right.
To protect this secret.
Yeah.
It's a capital crime.
There are people who I suspect are very
nervous right now in the legacy program
because they are under active FBI
investigation.
Yeah. I wonder what the mentality uh is
of somebody. Yeah. Probably
smug arrogance. I have no doubt they
think they're going to get away with it.
Uhhuh. And you know what?
What?
They probably will.
Oh, no. Don't say that.
No, [laughter]
I'm pretty bleak. I I I I'm not I
actually had an argument earlier on
today, actually. Well, not an argument,
but a a free and frank exchange of views
with
a lawyer who's been liazing with
Congress.
Um, and
they were having a bit of go at me
because I I'd talked about how I'm
talking to legacy program whistleblowers
who want to come forward,
but they're wary of coming forward. and
they took a swipe at me and basically
said, "We've got all these protections
in Congress. You should bring them in
and encourage them to come in." And I
said, "Well, hang on a bloody moment.
Look at what they've done with David
Grush's allegations." That's
right.
Sweet FA.
Yeah.
You know, David gave them firsthand
direct information from his sources of
where to look, where to find the
spacecraft.
Yes.
Where to literally go and open the door.
Oh, by the way, there's a there's a
spacecraft recovered from Aztec. Open
this door. Oh, yeah. That's the one from
Kingman.
That's right.
You know, who's the person in charge?
What's the title of the program? What's
the code name? He gave them chapter and
verse. How many subpoenas have been
issued Senate Select Committee for
Intelligence for any of that
information? Natada.
So crazy.
[__] nada. And so I don't think
Congress is doing its job. And frankly,
I do get the impression that
congressional staffers are captive to
the defense establishment.
Yeah. I mean, that feels right. I mean,
the last time around, the UAPDA was
killed by Mike Turner where like, you
know, his largest donors were all
defense. No, but I mean it's funny
because I mean a lot of the work is done
in this preliminary investigation of
allegations made by people like David
Grush, by people like Lu Lzando, people
like Jake Barber when they've gone in
and given evidence in camera in skiffs
as they all have done to the Congress.
The people that have been sitting there
have been staffers.
Yeah.
And they're good people. They're
well-intentioned good people. But one of
the things Jake Barber told me when he
was um giving his direct evidence of the
legacy program, first person evidence. I
mean, people say, "Where's the
evidence?"
The first person evidence of Jake Barber
was given
to the Senate Select Committee for
Intelligence.
Yes.
And um one of the staffers on that
committee was concerned for his own
safety. Yep.
And asked Jake, "Are you able to help me
get security because somebody from the
defense department is ordering
helicopters to fly across and over my
home? They're harassing my home." And
that's the kind of thing that the
defense department was doing. They were
buzzing a guy with Blackhawk helicopters
just hovering over his home as an act of
intimidation. A staffer working for the
Congress.
I know exactly who you're talking about.
and he was providing a pipeline of
legacy operators to uh basically talk to
the Senate the select the Senate
committee on
so I'm not blaming the staffers because
these people are intimidated they have
families too
and I don't think the public realize
that this is how the game is being
played you've got a vast national
security state and it is truly a deep
state protecting itself its
self-interest misusing the resources of
the state your money, your taxpayer
dollars
to essentially bully and intimidate and
in some cases murder people.
Yeah.
It's and and that's where I sort of go
there are so many times when I sit back
in this story and I go
hell's bells. This is like a thriller.
It's like a John Gisham thriller.
Truly,
but it's true.
Yes.
And it's being ignored by the premier
national security reporters of the land.
I mean, any sane, rational editor who
has an ounce of journalistic respect for
himself in his bones would deploy staff
to at least go and check out the basic
allegations.
See if the 170 odd Q cleared, you know,
people seeing UFOs around our most
sensitive sites, shutting them down in
certain cases might be somewhat
credible. Like maybe maybe check that
out. Yeah, it's crazy.
But you know what I'm enjoying? I'm
enjoying the tyranny of the internet.
the fact that you and I
are actually generating programs in your
case you're actually making a living by
the looks of it
uh doing stories on this phenomenon and
reporting on it
and it's interesting because
that proves to me there is an audience
there that want this stuff
Oh yeah there there there really is and
I think it resonates deeply with what
they intuitit about reality themselves
which is that there's more and that uh
you know there there have been sort of
secret programs around these things
hidden from them for a very long time.
And with AI and with the internet, you
can vigilante corroborate and research a
lot of this stuff yourself. And so I
think people are waking up post
pandemic. As much as I share your uh
pessimism around government action on
the topic, I do think the the larger,
you know, public is waking up to these
broader realities and that's exciting.
I'll tell you this.
If you accept psionics, which of course
the debunkers won't.
Yeah.
They're saying disclosure is coming.
Interesting. Wow.
Yeah.
Well, that
there's a pertubation in the force,
Luke. [laughter]
Yeah. Well, hey, I think the government
itself accepts psionics as we know
through the their remote viewing
programs that they
Yeah. I mean, that's the other double
think. You know, we we're told and
there's a whole movie made about it
debunking the idea of telepathy and
psychics and psionics. Yeah.
And yet you've only got to read the CIA
gateway documents in the CIA files and
they show that that's actually not true.
Yes. That that that essentially
everybody took it very very seriously.
And I've spoken to people who've
confirmed that there is still an ongoing
psionic operation being run in the
Pentagon.
Clearly. Well, the the um nominal reason
for shutting it down in 1995 was there
was only offense. There was no defense.
Why would you shut a program down where
there's still offense that it's still
working offensive? Absolutely. Makes no
sense.
Yeah. No, I I just I mean, I don't know
why people buy this, you know? Is it
because they're so distracted covering
the Ukraine war? Um
uh I mean, I I don't get it. I mean, at
what point did the lack of curiosity
begin?
I don't know. Well, something I've found
anecdotally that I wonder if this uh is
in accordance with with your experience
meeting a lot of these guys with long
government histories and serious
credentials. They're often more
conspiratorial than people in the
public. You expect you, you know, a
conspiracy theorist to be this tinfoil
hat. You know, they live in their mom's
basement or something. They're like
they're watching crazy [__] on the news.
But no, this is these these people have
serious credentials. their version of
reality is way weirder than the average
person in public's reality.
Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, it it's it's
how I felt when I started getting into
um psionics because one of the first
things that one of my sources in that
Georgetown pub back in probably 2018
told me was it's all about
consciousness.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I had no idea what he was talking
about.
Right. Right. It it really has taken me
probably seven years to actually begin
to understand and now I'm realizing more
and more it's all about consciousness.
Yeah,
it really is.
I agree. So much is downstream of that.
Well, uh Ross, this has been an honor. I
have one final question before for you
before you go. Is there anything Joe
Rogan just talked about this? Everybody
talks about this amazing bombshell thing
that you reported on. You know what I'm
gonna say.
Yeah. this UFO possibly found in uh uh
uh that that that they needed to build a
bunker around that was like, you know, a
mile plus long. Anything you can say
about it?
I do not resile from saying what I've
said previously, which is that there is
a buried
or at least built upon UFO that was too
big to move
and that's it. I I I part part of the
reason it's actually
I it's weird just how angry people get
because I can't reveal it. And there
seems to be this view in UAP social
commentary
that I'm obliged to reveal everything.
No.
And if I don't reveal everything then
I'm being irresponsible and I'm not
helping the disclosure cause. And one of
the things that was steeped into me as a
journalist, I've been privy because
people started leaking to me things that
they probably shouldn't have done to
secrets where, including from America, I
should not have them.
Mhm. Mhm.
And I've been shocked [laughter] that
I've had these things in my hand and
I've gone, "Holy hell." And in some
cases, I've burnt them.
Wow. But the the worst one for me was
when I covered a um
uh I was I was made aware that Australia
was deploying special forces troops into
um the Iraq desert
probably 3 weeks before the war started
and a friendly special forces operator
told me that this was happening and I
initially got really excited and
actually went and spoke to an editor
about it and said look I've I've got
this story I mean they're deploying SAS
test troops. We're going in, you know,
we're going to be in the Western Desert.
And then we kind of looked at each other
and went, "Nah."
And and I spoke later on, I did a story
with the Australian SAS about what
they'd done in the Western Desert, and I
asked one of the guys who'd been there,
"If I revealed that, what would have
happened?" And he said, "We would have
been killed."
Oh my god. Well, there you go. and and
and so in the case of the buried UFO,
I can't reveal because if I reveal why I
say this, it would compromise it. It's a
very sensitive place.
Mhm.
That should be enough of a guide for
you.
Mhm.
And to reveal the full extent of what I
know would compromise the lives of young
men and women who are doing good things
for America completely separate from the
UAP program. and they're probably
oblivious to what's sitting downstairs.
That's uh as valid a reason as ever. And
it also, you know, to to to argue on
your behalf against the the people that
say that's bad for disclosure, you're
going to torpedo your relationships if
you, you know, or speaking to somebody,
they're never going to speak to you
again. If you reveal something that you
promised not to. So,
because I I actually take it as a
journalistic responsibility not to
reveal something if it's going to
compromise the safety of your country or
my country.
Absolutely. And and you know, we are in
I I lie in bed at night worried about
how dangerous things are at the moment.
I wouldn't be surprised at all if Israel
launched a preemptive attack on Iran in
the next few weeks.
I wouldn't either. It's a it's a the
world's in a freaky place. And I think I
don't know if you have this kind of mind
dialectic around the UFO issue, but I
think about that. I'm like, "Oh, maybe
UFOs don't matter. The world's going to
blow up and then I say, "Well, if the
world's going to blow up, if there were
ever a time to care about UFOs and throw
a Hail Mary,
it would be now."
Well, one of the things I asked somebody
very recently was, "Is there some kind
of super weapon that we've got stashed
away?" Because I've heard this rumor,
and look, to be honest with you, it's
only rumor. It's people who probably
wouldn't really know for sure, but
they've told me secondhand stuff
suggesting
that the US has developed what what are
called scalar weapons.
Well, you heard the Michael Kratzia
state, but we are capable of so much
more. Our technologies permit us to
manipulate time and space. They leave
distance annihilated,
which you know, he's in an official
position and he's
and I know and and Trump keeps on
hinting that the US has a weapon, a
super weapon. that they haven't revealed
yet.
But notice Putin has said exactly the
same thing.
And I have been told that the Russians
have developed extraordinary weaponry.
And I wouldn't be surprised at all if
one of the primary reasons for the
secrecy is because each nation thinks
that they have an advantage with scalar
weapons, but the reality is none of them
do.
Right. Oh wow. That's scary that there's
some subrosa Manhattan project 2.0 going
on.
Oh, I'm sure there's a Manhattan project
2.0 going.
Well, you have these rumors that you had
Comm in Nazi Germany where they were
doing kind of black world nuclear stuff.
Well, I'll tell you one thing. I'm
sorry. We were trying to finish, but
I'll just give you this little tip.
Yeah, we talked forever. Yeah. There's a
there's a friend of mine who speaks to a
lot of astronauts and to people who
supervised astronauts and um
one story that came up was that in the
early days of Glasnost when
Russia
and America were kind of friends again.
Mhm. Russia imparted to America that it
was in possession of a crashed craft and
there was an astronaut, a known
astronaut still alive deployed to go and
actually I don't know if he's still
alive
to go and assist in the retrieval and a
lot has changed in the last what 25
years since the 30 years since the end
of the cold war
35 years
and it it's really interesting because I
suspect that there has been
collaboration
in the distant past between the
Americans and the and the Russians and
that it's suited each side
to keep quiet about the fact that there
is this subroa Manhattan project going
on where essentially there's a cold war.
There's a battle for possession of and
development of nonhuman technology. And
I'm in no doubt whatsoever that that's
happening. Well, that's an amazing note
to end on, which is let's hope
disclosure happens and these psionic uh
viewers are correct before the world
blows up.
Me, too.
Um, Ross, this is an honor, man. It's a
long time coming for me and uh it's it's
amazing to to hear all your, you know,
your vast knowledge and all this stuff
and uh pray for your continued
productivity uh because you are you're
really uh doing the Lord's work. Well,
vice versa, Jesse. I love your show and
there's plenty of room there for both of
us.
Awesome. All right. Thanks, Ross.